---
layout: post
title:      "My Reason for Choosing Software Engineering as a Career"
date:       2019-12-12 20:27:16 -0500
permalink:  my_reasoning_for_choosing_software_engineering_as_a_career
---


Aside from the obvious reasons of the great pay and economic benefits such as bonuses, I have a few very pertinent and particular reasons for wanting to pursue a career in software engineering. I had grown up being fascinated by health care professionals and how they were able to change peoples' lives for the better, make ripples in society by helping people live fuller lives, and how they were a source of inspiration and hope. I wanted to be a doctor or an APRN (advanced practice registered nurse) so I could help people reach their potential by improving their health and thus make society better. 

In the summer of 2011 I was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis and my life came to a screeching halt. I was only 22, but had to re-evaluate my dreams and aspirations because MS is a condition that can affect you physically and make you muscularly weaker than the average individual. Aside from dealing with a chronic illness that I had no idea about at that time, I had to also deal with the increasing frailty of my body. All this meant that i had to reroute my plans of helping people and improving the world. 

After going in to a depressive state and dealing with the relapses of my chronic condition due to not being on a medication because of lack of insurance, I finally started feeling better in the summer of 2014 when I was put on a drug called Rituxan which totally halted the progression of my condition and stopped my downward spiral. I started to feel more like myself and went back to school. This time I decided to pursue medical coding and billing. This entails assigning specific codes to different medical procedures and illnesses in order for insurance reimbursement to doctors and medical facilities. I figured that it was still in the realm of the health field and wouldn't require too much physical exertion on my part.

After a while though, the daily reading of doctor's reports and reading about illnesses and disease everyday began to weigh me down. Not only was I finding this field tedious, but I was finding it depressig as well. The medical coding and billing field doesn't have the kind of human interaction that the fields of nursing or medicine have. I was starting to feel isolated and my spirits were down. Also, this field cared primarily about insurance reimbursement, so it was very profit focused and I felt like it didn't focus enough on patient welfare. I am the type of person who puts individuals before profit, and so I was finding that this field wasn't for me. 

One thing that I have learned from my experiences in life and from watching motivational self help videos is that one shouldn't be afraid to change their career or learn something new. Education is life long and the skills you aquire as you learn are always transferable. Medical coding and billing has taught me to pay attention to detail, use specific terms, and to always be accurate. I feel like these skills are definitely transferable to the field of software engineering since it is a field that requires common sense, attention to detail, and accurate use of the terms of computer languages.  

By doing research about software engineering I came to learn that almost anyone from any walk of life can pursue a career in software engineering. I found out that the tech field was vast and very welcoming to new comers. I downloaded an app called Career Karma who's creators were software engineers themselves and made the app for people like myself who wanted to break in to tech. The app aims to build a community of students and give them advice on navigating through and choosing the best of the various coding bootcamps out there. Each week, they also have speakers who were a part of Career Karma and graduated from a bootcamp to go on and find well paying jobs as software engineers. I came across mothers, people in nursing school, single fathers, and people changing careers from biomedical studies to software engineering. These people had gone through bootcamps and went on to attain the jobs of their dreams. 

I myself found Flat Iron school through Career Karma and applied to the software engineering online bootcamp via Career Karma. I was also very motivated by the fellow aspiring software engineers I met through the app and attending the Zoom conferences featuring the succesful people who went on to become software engineers that came from all different walks of life. Another thing I realized about the software engineering community was that it is very supportive, fosters the sharing of knowledge, and encourages individuals to reach their highest potential. These were all reasons why I initially wanted to go in to the health field, but the same ideas of encouragement, growth and cultivation are also present in the software engineering field. 

Aside from the growth aspect and the awesome community practices, software engineering has the potential to allow individuals to construct the lives that they want to live. As a software engineer one can work from home, or anywhere in the world because tech is needed everywhere. It allows individuals freedom from mundane routines and tedious 9-5 jobs where individuals can end up feeling stuck or stifled. I have always wanted to travel and be able to work from anywhere or start a business in the future, and with a career in software engineering I believe I can acheive those goals and design the life that I want while reaching my highest potential. 

